In a previous lecture,
we introduced semi gradient TD as
approximate gradient descent in
the mean squared value error.
But this is a simplification
of a more nuanced story.
TD does not precisely optimize
this objective, instead,
there's a different objective
we can consider for
semi gradient TD with linear
function approximation.
In fact, linear TD
provably converges to
a well understood approximation
called the TD fixed point.
We'll talk about this today.
By the end of this video,
you will be able to understand
the fixed point of linear TD and
describe a theoretical
guarantee on the mean
squared value error at
the TD fixed point.
Let's take a closer look
at the TD update
with linear function
approximation.
The value of a state is
the inner product of
the state features and
the learn weight vector.
To simplify the notation,
we'll use X_ t to mean
the features associated
with the state S_t.
We can then expand
the TD update like this.
We can rewrite this using
a bit of linear algebra.
First, we'll pull X_t
into the brackets.
We then use the fact that
taking the transpose
of a scalar, leaves it unchanged.
Now, let's think about
what this update
looks like in expectation.
Understanding
the expected update is
key for proving convergence.
The TD update can be rewritten as
the expected update
plus a noise term,
and so is largely dominated
by the behavior of
the expected update.
The expected update characterizes
the expected change
in the weight from
one time step to the next.
The expected TD update can
be written as a vector b
minus a matrix A times
the current weights.
The matrix A is defined in
terms of an expectation
over the features,
while the vector b is defined in
terms of the features
and the reward.
The weights are said to converge,
when this expected
TD update is zero.
We call this point W_TD.
If A is invertible,
we can express this as
W_TD equals A inverse b.
More generally, W_TD is a
solution to this linear system.
We call this solution
the TD fixed point.
It can be proven that linear TD
converges to this point.
In fact, it can be
shown that TD minimizes
an objective that is
based on this A and b.
This objective extends
the connection
between TD and Bellman equations,
to the function
approximation setting.
Recall that in
the tabular setting,
we describe TD as a sample
based method for solving
the Bellman equation.
Linear TD similarly approximates
the solution to
the Bellman equation,
minimizing what is called
the projected Bellman error.
The details of this objective are
beyond the scope of this course,
but you can refer to the course
textbook for more detail.
The key takeaway is that
even though TD does
not converge to the minimum
of the mean squared value error,
It does converge to
the minimum of
a principled objective,
based on Bellman equations.
Nonetheless, we do still want to
understand the
relationship between
the solution found by
TD and the minimum
value error solution.
We can formally characterize
this relationship
with this equation.
The difference between
the TD fixed point and
the minimum value error solution
can be large if Gamma
is close to one.
If Gamma is very close to
zero on the other hand,
the TD fixed point
is very close to
the minimum value error solution.
This bound also depends on
the quality of the features.
If the features are limited,
both the minimum mean
squared value error
and the value era,
the TD fixed point, may be large.
If we can perfectly represent
the value function,
then regardless of Gamma,
the TD fixed point is equivalent
to the minimum value
error solution.
This is because both the left and
right-hand sides would be zero.
So in general, why isn't
the TD fixed point equal to
the minimum value error solution?
This is because of bootstrapping
under function approximation.
If our estimate of
the next state is
persistently inaccurate due
to function approximation,
then TD forever update
towards an inaccurate target.
On the other hand, if
our function approximator
is very good,
then our estimate
of the next state
will become very accurate.
So bootstrapping off
this estimate is
not problematic and the error for
the TD Solution is close to
the minimum value error.
That's it for today.
You should now know
a bit more about
why linear semi-gradient TD
is guaranteed to converge to
a fixed point called
the TD fixed point,
and how the TD
fixed point relates
to the minimum Mean
Squared Value Error.